# initiation

- add checkmate, castling, draw

# Trial 1

find all moves, for each move, calculate your total score from all pieces at their current positions, and enemy total score, and substract them to get final score.

# Trial 2

- Convert the moves data to 2d table, with 1 hot encoding all the dimensions of 8x8x12 and drop 1 column. this will give me 7+7+11 = 25 features
- label each move as win or lose(draw)
- train using classifier - knn, RBF svm, decision tree, random forest, ada boost, naive bayes

# Trial 3

- The data is going to be generated by keeping record of all moves of both the players in 8 x 8 x 12 matrix form which tells the position of 12 pieces across 8x8 board. after the result of game, there will be three targets assigned to the moves: 'win', 'lose', 'draw'
- example: if p1 wins, all moves of p1 will be labelled as win.
-
- I will train it using relu, categorical cross entropy, hidden layers not decided, output will be dense(3)

- For prediction, I will to find all 1st level possible moves from current state of board. I am not going deeper to get more moves. I will feed all those moves to my NN. for each prediction output will be three numbers, showing probability of win, lose, and draw. if win is available, highest win probability is selected. else if draw is available, highest draw probability move is selected, else lowest loss probability move is selected.

# Trial 4

- **trial 4** I will modify the PGN format a little to include the piece type at the beginning of the word. Since training a case sensitive model is not good enough, I will change the piece type notation from k K to bk wk for representing black king and white king.
- A problem that I identified with NLP is what if the predicted word is impossible move? While training, we will add a custom loss function that will increase the loss if the generated move is impossible. and if an impossible move occurs in prediction, we will have to fallback to best scoring move. I am not going to use transfer learning for this, because I am feeding a completely different language.
